add search api document (#1534)
vdaas/vald: docs/api/serach.md

# Vald Search APIs

## Overview

> Search Service is responsible for searching vectors from `vald-agent` which are similar to user request vector.

Author: this sentence is for both of them.
I thought I don't have to describe more deeply about LinearSearch and ANN Seach.

  rpc SearchByID(payload.v1.Search.IDRequest)
      returns (payload.v1.Search.Response) {}

  rpc StreamSearch(stream payload.v1.Search.Request)
      returns (stream payload.v1.Search.StreamResponse) {}

  rpc StreamSearchByID(stream payload.v1.Search.IDRequest)
      returns (stream payload.v1.Search.StreamResponse) {}

  rpc MultiSearch(payload.v1.Search.MultiRequest)
      returns (payload.v1.Search.Responses) {}

  rpc MultiSearchByID(payload.v1.Search.MultiIDRequest)
      returns (payload.v1.Search.Responses) {}

  rpc LinearSearch(payload.v1.Search.Request) returns (payload.v1.Search.Response) {}

  rpc LinearSearchByID(payload.v1.Search.IDRequest)
      returns (payload.v1.Search.Response) {}

  rpc StreamLinearSearch(stream payload.v1.Search.Request)
      returns (stream payload.v1.Search.StreamResponse) {}

  rpc StreamLinearSearchByID(stream payload.v1.Search.IDRequest)
      returns (stream payload.v1.Search.StreamResponse) {}

  rpc MultiLinearSearch(payload.v1.Search.MultiRequest)
      returns (payload.v1.Search.Responses) {}

  rpc MultiLinearSearchByID(payload.v1.Search.MultiIDRequest)
      returns (payload.v1.Search.Responses) {}
}
```

## Search RPC

> Search RPC is the method to search vector(s) similar to request vector.

Reviewer: same as https://github.com/vdaas/vald/pull/1534/files#r783592931

Author: I appreciate when you give the suggestion (fix speed is fast)

    |num|uint32| | \* | the maximum number of result to be returned |
    |timeout|int64| | | Search timeout in nanoseconds (default value is `5s`) |
    |ingress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Ingress Filter configuration |
    |egress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Egress Filter configuration |

### Output

- the scheme of `payload.v1.Search.Response`.

  ```bash
  message Search {
    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

## LinearSearchByID RPC

> LinearSearchByID PRC it the method to linear search similar vectors using by user defined vector ID.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LinearSearchByID RPC is the method to linear search similar vectors using by user defined vector ID.<br>
```

> The vector whose ID is same to requested ID should be indexed into the `vald-agent` before searching.

Reviewer: It think the not exist error will be returned if the ID is not exists in vald cluster, so I think it is not `should be`.
What do you think?

Author: yap, so I added `before searching`.
```suggestion
The vector whose ID is the same as the requested ID should be indexed into the `vald-agent` before searching.
If the vector doesn't be stored, you will get a `NOT_FOUND` error as a result.
```
how is it?

  ```bash
  message Search {
    message StreamResponse {
      oneof payload {
        Response response = 1;
        google.rpc.Status status = 2;
      }
    }

    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.StreamResponse
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |response|Response| | the search result response |
    |status|google.rpc.Status| | the status of google RPC. |

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

## MultiLinearSearch RPC

> MultiLinearSearch PRC is the method to linear search vectors with multiple vectors in **1** request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MultiLinearSearch RPC is the method to linear search vectors with multiple vectors in **1** request.
```

### Output

- the scheme of `payload.v1.Search.Responses`.

  ```bash
  message Search {
    message Responses {
      repeated Response responses = 1;
    }

    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.Responses
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |responses| Response | repeated(Array[Response]) | the list of search results response |

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

### MultiLinearSearchByID RPC

> MultiLinearSearchByID PRC is the method to linear search vectors with multiple IDs in **1** request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MultiLinearSearchByID RPC is the method to linear search vectors with multiple IDs in **1** request.
```

    |epsilon|float| | \* | the search coefficient (default value is `0.1`) |
    |timeout|int64| | | Search timeout in nanoseconds (default value is `5s`) |
    |ingress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Ingress Filter configuration |
    |egress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Egress Filter configuration |

### Output

- the scheme of `payload.v1.Search.Response`.

  ```bash
  message Search {
    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

## SearchByID RPC

> SearchByID PRC it the method to search similar vectors using by user defined vector ID.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SearchByID RPC it the method to search similar vectors using by user defined vector ID.<br>
```

> The vector whose ID is same to requested ID should be indexed into the `vald-agent` before searching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vector with the same requested ID should be indexed into the `vald-agent` before searching.
```

    |epsilon|float| | \* | the search coefficient (default value is `0.1`) |
    |timeout|int64| | | Search timeout in nanoseconds (default value is `5s`) |
    |ingress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Ingress Filter configuration |
    |egress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Egress Filter configuration |

### Output

- the scheme of `payload.v1.Search.Response`.

  ```bash
  message Search {
    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

> ## StreamSearch PRC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## StreamSearch RPC
```

StreamSearch RPC is the method to search vectors with multi queries(vectors) using the [bidirectional streaming RPC](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#bidirectional-streaming-rpc).<br>

> By using the bidirectional streaming PRC, the search request can be communicated in any order between client and server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the bidirectional streaming RPC, the search request can be communicated in any order between client and server.
```

    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.StreamResponse
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |response|Response| | the search result response |
    |status|google.rpc.Status| | the status of google RPC. |

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

## StreamSearchByID RPC

StreamSearchByID RPC is the method to search vectors with multi queries(IDs) using the [bidirectional streaming RPC](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#bidirectional-streaming-rpc).<br>

> By using the bidirectional streaming PRC, the search request can be communicated in any order between client and server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the bidirectional streaming RPC, the search request can be communicated in any order between client and server.
```

  ```bash
  message Search {
    message StreamResponse {
      oneof payload {
        Response response = 1;
        google.rpc.Status status = 2;
      }
    }

    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.StreamResponse
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |response|Response| | the search result response |
    |status|google.rpc.Status| | the status of google RPC. |

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

## MultiSearch RPC

> MultiSearch PRC is the method to search vectors with multiple vectors in **1** request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MultiSearch RPC is the method to search vectors with multiple vectors in **1** request.
```

    |egress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Egress Filter configuration |

### Output

- the scheme of `payload.v1.Search.Responses`.

  ```bash
  message Search {
    message Responses {
      repeated Response responses = 1;
    }

    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.Responses
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |responses| Response | repeated(Array[Response]) | the list of search results response |

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

### MultiSearchByID RPC

> MultiSearchByID PRC is the method to search vectors with multiple IDs in **1** request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MultiSearchByID RPC is the method to search vectors with multiple IDs in **1** request.
```

    |ingress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Ingress Filter configuration |
    |egress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Egress Filter configuration |

### Output

- the scheme of `payload.v1.Search.Response`.

  ```bash
  message Search {
    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

## LinearSearchByID RPC

LinearSearchByID RPC is the method to linear search similar vectors using by user defined vector ID.<br>

> The vector whose ID is the same as the requested ID should be indexed into the `vald-agent` before searching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vector with the same requested ID should be indexed into the `vald-agent` before searching.
```

    |request_id|string| | | unique request ID |
    |num|uint32| | \* | the maximum number of result to be returned |
    |timeout|int64| | | Search timeout in nanoseconds (default value is `5s`) |
    |ingress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Ingress Filter configuration |
    |egress_filters|Filter.Config| | | Egress Filter configuration |

### Output

- the scheme of `payload.v1.Search.Response`.

  ```bash
  message Search {
    message Response {
      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

> ## StreamLinearSearch PRC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## StreamLinearSearch RPC
```

StreamLinearSearch RPC is the method to linear search vectors with multi queries(vectors) using the [bidirectional streaming RPC](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#bidirectional-streaming-rpc).<br>

> By using the bidirectional streaming PRC, the linear search request can be communicated in any order between client and server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the bidirectional streaming RPC, the linear search request can be communicated in any order between client and server.
```

      string request_id = 1;
      repeated Object.Distance results = 2;
    }
  }

  message Object {
    message Distance {
      string id = 1;
      float distance = 2;
    }
  }
  ```

  - Search.StreamResponse
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |response|Response| | the search result response |
    |status|google.rpc.Status| | the status of google RPC. |

  - Search.Response
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |request_id|string| | the unique request ID |
    |results|Object.Distance| repeated(Array[Object.Distance]) | search results |

  - Object.Distance
    |field|type|label|desc.|
    |:---:|:---|:---|:---|
    |id|string| | the vector ID |
    |distance|float| | the distance between result vector and request vector |

### Status Code

| code | desc.            |
| :--: | :--------------- |
|  0   | OK               |
|  3   | INVALID_ARGUMENT |
|  5   | NOT_FOUND        |

## StreamLinearSearchByID RPC

StreamLinearSearchByID RPC is the method to linear search vectors with multi queries(IDs) using the [bidirectional streaming RPC](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#bidirectional-streaming-rpc).<br>

> By using the bidirectional streaming PRC, the linear search request can be communicated in any order between client and server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the bidirectional streaming RPC, the linear search request can be communicated in any order between client and server.
```
